modules: runtime deprecate subpath folder mappings (#35747)
nodejs/node: doc/api/packages.md

files within the package. Because `node_modules` paths are forbidden in exports
targets, this expansion is dependent on only the files of the package itself.

### Subpath folder mappings
<!-- YAML
changes:
  - version: REPLACEME
    pr-url: https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/35746
    description: Runtime deprecation.
  - version: v14.13.0
    pr-url: https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/34718
    description: Documentation-only deprecation.
-->

> Stability: 0 - Deprecated: Use subpath patterns instead.

> Before subpath patterns were supported, a trailing `"/"` suffix was used to
> support folder mappings:
> 
> ```json
> {
>   "exports": {
>     "./features/": "./features/"
>   }
> }
> ```
> 
> _This feature will be removed in a future release._

Author: What if we include the first example as inline in the text, like:

```suggestion
Before subpath patterns were supported, a trailing `"/"` suffix was used to
support folder mappings, for example like `"./features/": "./features/"`.

This feature is deprecated and will be removed in a future release.
```

@GeoffreyBooth @ljharb let me know if the above can work for you?

Reviewer: That’s fine, but what i mean is, it’d be helpful if the full exports algorithm for slashes was available in docs from old versions, even if it’s barely mentioned in the latest docs.

Author: I'm not sure I follow, can you provide a suggestion for what you mean?

Reviewer: You can view docs on the website for older node versions. Since in, say, node v12.17, slash exports were not deprecated, I’d prefer to be able to view those docs and see fully fleshed out information about slash exports. Most users would view the docs for the latest version, and would see the depreciation notice.

Author: The previous documentation did not have a dedicated section for these mappings, it was melded into the main exports documentation. See eg https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v12.x/docs/api/esm.html#esm_package_entry_points.

The example of this PR as written currently seems to capture your request though, so would you rather not see the change above?

If so, perhaps we can go with Geoffreys suggestion and include the example at the end instead then? Would that work?

Reviewer: I mean, I wouldn't consider any of my requests on this PR a blocker even if i had the place to do so :-) in particular, the [module resolution algorithm](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v12.x/docs/api/modules.html#modules_all_together) references `PACKAGE_EXPORTS_RESOLVE`, but that doesn't seem to be documented anywhere, and I was hoping to have an example of that that included slash paths.

Author: @ljharb `PACKAGE_EXPORTS_RESOLVE` can be found in the ESM resolve spec at https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v15.x/docs/api/esm.html#esm_resolver_algorithm_specification.

> I mean, I wouldn't consider any of my requests on this PR a blocker even if i had the place to do so

Yes I understand there's no block here I'm just trying to get to the root of the request in a way that works for you both - I still don't understand exactly what documentation you would like to see that this current example is missing.

> Instead, use direct [subpath patterns][]:

Reviewer 2: I initially read this section and thought “why are we _adding_ a section to the docs for something we’re deprecating?” and only later realized you’re introducing the deprecated thing to then introduce what people should use instead. I worry that people might not get to the important part, which is at the end. Can we instead just introduce subpath patterns and this use case, as if the trailing slash version never existed?

Author: Yes I've added the feature to the docs to deprecate it :)

I could just remove the first example, would that help?

Otherwise I could leave out the section here and just have the deprecation but my concern then was users might miss that it is even deprecated if they aren't using the feature.

Reviewer 2: At the very least I’d put the deprecated version last. But I think it would be better to just not include the deprecated info at all. Simply explain subpath patterns for the use case of exposing `*` within a folder, and why a user might want to do that, as if the deprecated feature had never existed.

Reviewer: It would be nice if we could document `/` subpaths in the docs for older node versions tho, at least as a reference, even if we didn't include that info in docs for node versions in which it was deprecated. Is that possible?

Author: I've added a suggestion above, please take a look.

Author: As far as I can tell, for now the best compromise seems to be to leave this section as-is.

@ljharb @GeoffreyBooth if either of you have a direct suggestion please let me know and discuss further between yourselves, but this seems the best so far from the conversation unless you have further feedback.

Reviewer: Thanks, I'm content with this for now; I'll definitely make suggestions in the future if I have ideas for improvement.
